[Style guide] Grammar and Formatting (#9263)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/style-guide/grammar-and-formatting/structure/lists.md

---
pcx_content_type: Concept
title: Lists
---
## Lists

There are three types of lists:

> + Bulleted lists for unordered items

Reviewer: keep these bulleted lists consistent with each other

Author: I'm unsure what you mean on this, could you tell me which list is inconsistent?

+ Numbered lists for ordered items
+ Embedded lists contains items within the sentence

Here are some tips when creating lists:

+ Keep list items parallel
+ Start numbered lists with a command (imperative verb)
+ Consistently punctuate by using appropriate sentence + punctuation within the list (periods for full sentences, etc.)
+ For numbered lists in markdown, only use 1 as your number. Since markdown auto-creates the numbering, you could get into a situation where you remove a step and the markdown no longer matches the output.

## Bullet points

Bullet points help the reader's eye focus on a list of important elements.

> However, as with any other aspect of writing, they should be used mindfully. Here's a list of when you should and shouldn't resort to bullet points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, as with any other aspect of writing, they should be used mindfully. Below is a list of when you should and shouldn't resort to bullet points.
```

> ❌Don't use bullet points:
> 
> + To outline **processes** (prefer numbered lists)
> + To **explain** your reasoning (it's a blog post, not a list of system requirements)
> 
> ✅Use bullet points:
> 
> + To list **facts**
> + To list **data**
> + To list **options**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
❌ Don't use bullet points:

+ To outline **processes** (prefer numbered lists)
+ To **explain** your reasoning (it's a blog post, not a list of system requirements)

✅ Use bullet points:

+ To list **facts**
+ To list **data**
+ To list **options**
```

> + To list **options**

Reviewer: maybe we can make this into a table like the others similar to it? wdyt

## Bulleted Lists

> + Instructions should be numbered steps and not bullet points. See How to Write Procedures for additional information.

Reviewer: link to this

Author: That page is in Content Strategy, I'll remove the sentence for now until I can have a working link

> + Do not punctuate bullet points unless each item is a full sentence.
> + If bullet point items are followed by a description, use a colon after the heading and capitalize the description. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not punctuate bullet points unless each item is a full sentence.

If bullet point items are followed by a description, use a colon after the heading and capitalize the description. For example:
```

    + **Item 1**: Description 1
    + **Item 2**: Description 2

> + For bullet points, try to stick to the "six-pack" rule: no more than six bullets, each made up of six words or less.
> + See [The best way to use bullet points](https://thewritinghabit.blog/2016/08/22/best-way-to-use-bullet-points/) for additional guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For bullet points, try to stick to the "six-pack" rule: no more than six bullets, each made up of six words or less.

Refer to [The best way to use bullet points](https://thewritinghabit.blog/2016/08/22/best-way-to-use-bullet-points/) for additional guidance.
```

> Use this checklist

Reviewer: make this a section so this should be a header perhaps?

Author: I'm considering removing "Use this checklist" and just make "Bulleted List Checklist" the H3. Is this a good solution?

Reviewer: that sounds like a good idea

Bulleted List Checklist

> When you find yourself creating a list of bullet points, go through this checklist:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

When you find yourself creating a list of bullet points, go through this checklist:
```

1. Do all bullet points belong together?

>     + ⚠️Check that all the elements in the list are logically connected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + Check that all the elements in the list are logically connected.
```

Reviewer: do this for the other points in this section

2. Do I have more three or more bullet points, but less than six?

>     + ⚠️Readers get lost when reading long lists; at the same time, if you have less than three elements to list, do you really need to use bullet points?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + ⚠️Readers get lost when reading long lists; at the same time, if you have less than three elements to list, is it necessary to use bullet points?
```

3. Are all bullet points shorter than three lines of text?
    + ⚠️Bullet points should not be used as section headers. If you have excessively long bullet points, consider breaking up the list into several subsections.
4. Is punctuation consistent?

>     + ⚠️End all elements of a bulleted list with a period if each element is a full sentence; do not add any punctuation if you're just listing nouns or parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + ⚠️End all elements of a bulleted list with a period if each element is a full sentence; do not add any punctuation if you are listing nouns or parameters.
```

---
pcx_content_type: Concept
title: Lists
---
# Lists

There are three types of lists:

+ Bulleted lists for unordered items
+ Numbered lists for ordered items
+ Embedded lists for items within a sentence

Here are some tips when creating lists:

+ Keep list items parallel
+ Start numbered lists with a command (imperative verb)
+ Consistently punctuate by using appropriate sentence + punctuation within the list (periods for full sentences, etc.)
+ For numbered lists in markdown, only use 1 as your number. Since markdown auto-creates the numbering, you could get into a situation where you remove a step and the markdown no longer matches the output.

## Bullet points

Bullet points help the reader's eye focus on a list of important elements.

However, as with any other aspect of writing, they should be used mindfully. Below is a list of when you should and should not resort to bullet points.

> <table>

Reviewer: The sentences in this table are bolded (if you check it out on the preview link), any way we can only have the table headers be bold?

Author: Oh yeah I'm not sure why it's like that. I'll see what I can do about it, another one of the HTML tables I did looks just fine

Author: Fixed, wrong tags

    <tr>
        <th width=50%>❌ Do not use bullet points</th>
        <th>✅ Use bullet points</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>To outline <b>processes</b> (prefer numbered lists)</th>
        <th>To list <b>facts</b></th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>To explain your reasoning (it is a blog post, not a list of system requirements)</th>
        <th>To list data</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>-</th>
        <th>To list options</th>
    </tr>
</table>

## Bulleted lists

> + Do not punctuate bullet points unless each item is a full sentence.
> 
> + If bullet point items are followed by a description, use a colon after the heading and capitalize the description. For example,
>     + **Item 1**: Description 1
>     + **Item 2**: Description 2
> + For bullet points, try to stick to the "six-pack" rule: no more than six bullets, each made up of six words or less.
> 
> + Refer to [The best way to use bullet points](https://thewritinghabit.blog/2016/08/22/best-way-to-use-bullet-points/) for additional guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not punctuate bullet points unless each item is a full sentence.

If bullet point items are followed by a description, use a colon after the heading and capitalize the description. For example,
+ **Item 1**: Description 1
+ **Item 2**: Description 2

For bullet points, try to stick to the "six-pack" rule: no more than six bullets, each made up of six words or less.

Refer to [The best way to use bullet points](https://thewritinghabit.blog/2016/08/22/best-way-to-use-bullet-points/) for additional guidance.
```
